[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Top astronomers say the
search for habitable planets
and extraterrestrial life are
their top priorities as a long
awaited Space Telescope
heads towards lift off.
This is Gaia News.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
A new survey of US astronomers
and astrophysicists
puts the search for
habitable planets
on the top of their list
for the next 10 years.
This survey by the
National Academies
of Sciences,
Engineering, and Medicine
also spelled out how to
ramp up resources, including
ground and space telescopes.
Astronomer and Gaia
News contributor
Marc Dantonio on the report.
>> There's a number of
aspects of this report,
which are very important
to take away from the news,
and that is, number one,
professional astronomers,
tenured professors, astrophysics
schools, all are saying,
we know there's life out there.
That's number one.
Number two, they're saying we
want to be able to find it.
This is very important,
because what we're seeing
is part of the continued
shift toward that end
of the spectrum.
So astronomy is
being dragged in.
Astronomers are being
dragged, kicking and screaming
in some cases, not all
anymore, down the path to say,
we know life
exists, and we think
we can probably detect it now.
And we'd like to.
That's a huge shift,
I mean, a huge shift.
>> It seems like people in
the general public are open
to the idea of off planet life.
Why is this report
so significant?
>> It is news when you consider
that academia has never really
bought into that.
So when you have a Harvard
astrophysicist saying this,
you see the writing on the wall.
Academia is going
down this path,
and they're going to keep
going down this path.
And they're going to pursue
finding life in the universe.
>> Meantime, the much
anticipated James Webb Space
Telescope is scheduled to
finally launch this month after
a history of
postponements and delays.
Why are astronomers so
excited about this telescope?
>> If you look at James Webb
Space Telescope's capabilities,
I think you'll find that the
James Webb is probably the most
significant mission in our
history to this point on Earth,
and the reason is because what
it stands to be able to show
to us.
It might be able to
answer the question,
the real, true question.
Is there life out there?
That's going to be able to see
the atmospheres of exoplanets,
around distant
stars, and we'll see
things that might indicate
that there is life there.
And that is a very
important revelation
we can't do right
now, because we
don't have a telescope that's
really got the resolution
to do that.
Well, James Webb is there.
So we have that
strength on our side.
So that's a very
important thing.
You could answer that
ultimate question.
>> The National Academies
of Sciences weighed
in on their hopes
for the future.
What does astronomer Mark
Dantonio look forward to?
>> I hope that we identify
planets out there that are
suitable way stations for
travelers from Earth that
eventually might
want to go there.
Sure, we can't ply the
gulf between the stars now,
but we know ways too.
And we know ways to do
it fast and quickly,
and that's something
that I'd love to see.
In 10 years, I'd love to see
an established program to do--
I won't say faster than light
travel but warped space travel.
I'd love to see progress there.
I'd love to see the James Webb
give us candidates for planets
that we think
might actually have
signs of industrial
pollutants, signs of oxygen
in the atmosphere inferred
from other chemicals
in the atmosphere, like
carbon dioxide and methane,
and other possibilities.
And those other possibilities,
that's the mystery.
What are those?
Well, those are
signatures of life.
The next 10 years promises to
show us some incredible things.
Hopefully, we'll understand
some of these other phenomena
in the universe
that are occurring
right now too that right now
we don't understand too well.
>> Whether or not the
recommendations in the survey
will be followed
remains to be seen,
but the James Webb Space
Telescope planned launch date
is December 22.
For a new perspective,
this is Gaia News.
For more information
on this topic,
check out this content on Gaia.
[MUSIC PLAYING]